p>When you or I request a loan from a bank, we&#8217;re faced with <strong>secured</strong> and <strong>unsecured</strong> loans. A secured loan gives the bank a charge over the asset you plan to purchase. So, if you buy a car using a secured loan, the bank, in effect, <strong>owns it until you repay the loan in full</strong>. An unsecured loan (normally at a higher rate) has no such charge.</p><p>Similarly in business, you can apply for funding using your <strong>assets</strong> or <strong>cash flow</strong>. Clearly, asset lending is less risky for the bank. However, many businesses don&#8217;t have the assets to secure the size of loan they need. Moreover, few businesses have the assets to back a loan anywhere near the size of what&#8217;s available if the bank approves a cash flow lending. Regarding what a bank will approve&#8230;</p><ul><li>For asset lending, banks typically offer <strong>a percentage of the total fixed asset value</strong> (an independent market valuation)</li><li>For a cash flow lending, banks typically offer <strong>a multiple (x) of maintainable cash flow</strong> (FCF) or earnings (EBIT); the multiple depends on volatility and similar factors</li></ul><p>Imagine your EBIT is $10m and, if approved, the bank will lend 4x EBIT. That&#8217;s $40m. If the same bank would lend 70% on assets, you would need almost $60m in assets to raise a similar amount. Sure, certain businesses have those assets (at market value, not book or cost), but I&#8217;d say most don&#8217;t, and <strong>most don&#8217;t want their assets encumbered anyway</strong>.</p><p>One caution, made more apparent by the GFC, is that <strong>you shouldn&#8217;t rely on the amount a bank approves as a gauge for responsible gearing levels</strong>. If you borrow 4x earnings on an earnings figure that you know isn&#8217;t sustainable, you could easily end up with negative ownership. That is, the business is worth less than the debt it owes. Credit teams can be tough, but there&#8217;s always information asymmetry; you know much more about the business than they do.</p>
