<p>Paul Graham posted a great essay yesterday on <em>what startups are really like</em>. The essay <strong>polarizes the life of an entrepreneur</strong> against the life of&#8230; well&#8230; anyone with a job. It also describes what surprises founders the most when they enter startup life and it discusses founders&#8217; views of external investors (using a sample of Y Combinator founders).</p><p>(For those uninitiated, Paul is from Y Combinator, an early-stage startup investment firm.)</p><p>Here are the points from Paul&#8217;s essay that grabbed my attention the most:</p><ul><li>Founders said their number one surprise was how <strong>careful they needed to be about co-founders</strong></li><li>Founders were surprised <strong>how much more important persistence is than skill</strong> and intelligence</li><li>Founders were surprised <strong>how long things take</strong>, especially when bureaucracy takes hold</li><li>Founders were surprised <strong>launching early, learning from customers and iterating really works</strong></li><li>Founders were surprised of the power of <strong>engaging customers and changing ideas accordingly</strong></li><li>Founders were surprised that they <strong>overvalued competitors&#8217; ideas and overstated the threat</strong></li><li>And of course, founders were surprised that <strong>investors are clueless</strong></li></ul><p>This last point grabbed my attention because, a) I&#8217;m an investor, and b) I like to think I&#8217;m not entirely clueless. This then begs the questions, a) <strong>am I in fact clueless</strong>, and b) <strong>does this even matter? </strong></p><p>Well, of course I&#8217;m clueless about many things, and, I&#8217;m usually clueless about the products and services of our investees, before we invest. But, once I  seriously consider an investment, <strong>I become an expert</strong>, or as expert as one can become in a matter of weeks. I&#8217;ll never have the entrenched understanding that comes from 20 years of research, but I can build an appreciation that helps to understand a potential investment, it&#8217;s market, it&#8217;s customers, etc.</p><p>So, is this enough? Considering I&#8217;m not the one building the product, it likely is more than enough. My skill lies elsewhere in areas that complement the skills of the founder (or at least that&#8217;s my pitch). I know finance, I know deals, I know fund raising, and as a layperson (with regard to an investee&#8217;s technology), I also know what the average person wants. And with that,<strong> I can just as easily argue that founders are clueless too</strong>. Just as investors may be stumped trying to turn a device on, <strong>founders interminably build square pegs for round holes</strong>.</p>
