<p>Private equity is very much about growth through acquisition. Acquisitions give the private equiteer the ability to <strong>create instant value through multiple arbitrage</strong>, synergistic cost savings and synergistic revenue increases. While synergies can take time to realise (some may be instant), it&#8217;s the multiple arbitrage that can really boost value quickly.</p><p>Because of this phenomenon, private equiteers are highly motivated to make high-value bolt on acquisitions for their primary investments. However, <strong>it is important that these bolt on acquisitions are highly strategic</strong> in nature, otherwise long-term value may be negatively affected. Acquisitions should create real synergistic value, they should align with the core objectives of the group, and generally, they shouldn&#8217;t just be based on multiple arbitrage.</p><p>The reason for this is manifold. Prospective buyers of the overall group will only apply market multiples to businesses that make sense. If I&#8217;m trying to sell a furniture retailer at a market multiple of 10x, most strategic buyers won&#8217;t also pay 10x for a small green grocer that I&#8217;ve<em>bolted</em>on.</p><p>Additionally, even if I bought the green grocer for only 3x, <strong>there is an administrative overhead with running another business as a bolt on acquisition</strong>. With another furniture retailer as a bolt-on acquisition, this overhead may be relatively minor since the skills already exist to run the business and most of the back office integrates anyway. However, with a green grocer, we don&#8217;t have the skills, there&#8217;s virtually no integration and we now essentially have an investment in a completely new market.</p><p>Out of all this,<strong> I don&#8217;t think the term bolt-on acquisition is pejorative enough </strong>to describe many of the acquisitions that are occurring. Maybe more fitting is the term <em>clip-on</em> acquisition, <em>stick-on</em> acquisition or (more originally) <em>completely-unrelated</em> acquisition.</p>
