p>Boring businesses are great for private equiteers because they attract <strong>less attention</strong>, ergo<strong> less competition</strong> <strong>during sale</strong>, ergo <strong>lower earnings multiples</strong>. I wrote about this in a post titled Boring… but we love boring in private equity. However, there&#8217;s a problem with boring businesses&#8230; or a consideration, if you will.</p><p>A private equiteer&#8217;s boring business is also <strong>an employee&#8217;s boring business</strong>. And about the only time employees want to work for a boring business is when they need to be paid while doing other unpaid things (such as studying for school, writing a manuscript or using Facebook). But, this doesn&#8217;t nullify the <em>boring business</em> theory, it just poses considerations.</p><p><strong>Anything to do with employees must be considered in a different light</strong>. Firstly, in a business where passion isn&#8217;t obvious (i.e. boring), you can&#8217;t expect people to work 80-hour weeks for 40-hour salaries. Secondly, you shouldn&#8217;t assume anywhere near as much loyalty. A glue packer will go elsewhere for a 20% pay increase, whereas an F1 engineer may stay even after a 50% pay cut. Lastly, you&#8217;ll be limited in terms of the talent pool; a regional GM of Apple won&#8217;t accept a CEO role at a glue factory for a 70% pay cut, but they may do so for an internet startup.</p><p>However, all is not lost. Focusing on productivity, efficiency and working with what&#8217;s available, has been <strong>a godsend to many a boring business</strong>. Oftentimes, you don&#8217;t need the big-name CEOs or loads of employee innovation. Sometimes, you just need a well-oiled machine that supports quick and easy bolt-on acquisitions (and as much as that may make us cringe, it really can create long-term value in boring industries).</p><p>P.S. I really don&#8217;t like using the word &#8216;boring&#8217;, but let&#8217;s not sugar-coat more than we have to.</p>
