p>Over at the Union Square Ventures blog, Fred Wilson discusses the failure rates expected in venture capital. He suggests <strong>a third of all deals are hit out of the park, a third are mediocre, and the last third fail</strong> (although his own firm&#8217;s empirical data suggests more of a 40/40/20 split). He also suggests that the overall cash return on such a portfolio may be 3-4x, which is pretty good if you can get it.</p><p>Private equity is quite different; <strong>we expect all deals to do well</strong>. Not out-of-the-park, but well enough to hit target returns (at least 20% IRR or 2x cash). Private equiteers generally believe this low-risk moderate-return approach is more successful than the high-risk high-return approach favoured by venture capitalists.</p><p>Now, although this difference in investment strategy may seem subtle, it actually means <strong>private equity and venture capital are miles apart in execution</strong>. Without decent growth, venture capital is toast. However, even with very low-growth, private equity can still bear fruit. How? <strong>Leverage, deal structure and multiple arbitrage. </strong></p><p>This isn&#8217;t to suggest PE and VC are in any way substitutable. But, like all investments, we can analyse and consider the implications of each strategy.</p><p>One of the major implications, especially in mid-market private equity, is that <strong>we don&#8217;t mind skipping over high-growth businesses</strong>. We know there&#8217;s less competition for lower-growth businesses and that less competition means lower purchase multiples.  And, with an eye firmly on moderate target returns with very low-risk, <strong>we know paying a lower multiple is a great risk mitigator</strong>.</p><p>We also know that <strong>stable revenues are more conducive to leverage</strong>, and leverage amplifies our returns. While leverage also amplifies our risk, we know particular deal structures can transfer some of that risk to other investors in exchange for a taper on our returns above a specified target. This is okay for us, because remember, we are more concerned about mitigating risks than overshooting our target by orders of magnitude.</p><p>So, as you can see, lower-growth (aka boring) businesses can actually serve our cause more effectively. You may see larger private equity funds going crazy with mid-20s purchase multiples in public markets, but down here at the mid-market level, <strong>we have choice</strong>. We can invest in the most boring businesses you&#8217;ve ever seen, conservatively apply debt, structure the deal well, simplify and organise management, exit when the time is right at a higher multiple,<strong> and achieve our objectives, even without significant increases in revenue</strong>. In private equity, we love boring.</p>
