<p>I received a couple of emails in reference to yesterday&#8217;s post, In it for more than the carry. Some commented that a $100m fund is a micro fund. Some commented that they received a bigger percentage of carry in their first few years. And, some suggested there&#8217;s nothing wrong with entering private equity with carry at front of mind.</p><p>Those comments are dually agreed and noted. However, when discussing the average scenario, you have to draw a line somewhere and stick to it. Upon reflection, <strong>I&#8217;d say the average fund that many of us are managing is in the range of $50-500m</strong>. While a $1b fund is not necessarily mega, I do think it is a large fund. Maybe I should have used $200m instead in my example (100 is always such a nice round number to work with).</p><p>On the topic of percentage of carry (carried interest), <strong>many first year private equiteers don&#8217;t even get carry</strong>. And, you&#8217;ll really be surprised to see how much carry is transferred outside of the investment team and/or to the founders. <strong>The founders of a fund are just as diligent with negotiating carry</strong> (carried interest) as they are with negotiating investee deals; don&#8217;t for a minute think they&#8217;ll become generous just for your sake.</p><p>As for the last point, maybe I was being a little disingenuous with claiming that real private equiteers make carry (carried interest) their last priority; it&#8217;s simply not true. I guess the message I was looking to convey was carry could actually end up being a lot less in real terms than fledgling private equiteers expect. They often dream of numbers and conveniently exclude management fees, external entitlements and founder avarice. So, I guess <strong>the real message is to learn to love the job and the money will follow</strong>.</p>
