<p>In a previous post I talked about the fee structure of the typical private equity fund and in particular the 20% outperformance fee (also known as <em>carried interest </em>or<em> carry</em>). Well, people are drawn to working for private equity firms because of the <em>carry</em>, don&#8217;t let anyone tell you otherwise. However, it&#8217;s not as simple as just receiving 20% of cash outperformance; often, people who may not even work for the firm have a financial interest in the carry. This can come as a disturbing realisation for fledgling private equiteers, so I thought I&#8217;d explain it here.</p><p>The following list outlines the people and/or companies that often have a stake in the carry:</p><ol><li><strong>The private equity team</strong>, which includes the founders, directors, associates and analysts (sometimes).</li><li><strong>Previous founders</strong>, who aren&#8217;t active in the firm anymore, but who struck profit sharing agreements.</li><li><strong>Previous team members</strong>, who keep the stake of carry that they accrued while employed (sometimes).</li><li><strong>Overarching parents</strong> (banks, etc), which may have a stake in the carry if the fund is captive.</li><li><strong>Early investors</strong>, which may have a stake for helping to establish the fund from a funding perspective.</li><li><strong>Legacy partners</strong>, which may be entitled to a stake as the result of the fund being spun out of them.</li></ol><p>As you can see, the 20% carry can dwindle away quite quickly, depending on circumstances. Captive funds usually have it the hardest because they&#8217;re investing from the parent&#8217;s balance sheet and have no choice but to satiate their every desire.</p>
