<<p>What the heck is a Corporate Governance Framework (CGF) anyway? It even has its own acronym for Pete&#8217;s sake. According to this acronym, <strong>not only does a corporation need governance, but that governance needs a framework</strong>. And, not only does corporate governance need a framework, but it needs interminable discussion about what constitutes this framework. Wow, I have a headache already.</p><p>What happened to working towards a greater good and being a part of something innovative and rewarding? What happened to only acting in a way that you would be proud to see published and proud to tell your mother? <strong>What happened to just being a decent person</strong> who gives, shares and empathises with others? Truth be told, I&#8217;m not so sure.</p><p>Corporate governance somewhat ties into the idea of the principal-agent problem because it is associated with executives that don&#8217;t act in the interests of the people (whether those people are shareholders, members of society or the man on the moon). I realise it&#8217;s a necessary evil, mostly for large listed businesses (that have lost the plot), but what concerns me is talk of a CGF in SMFEs (the F is for fast growing). If you refer to my previous post (Responding to the current unpleasantness), you&#8217;ll see I&#8217;m a fan of keeping it simple, especially in times of turmoil. So, my nonconstructive advice regarding CGFs is to <strong>get a grip, be brutal with anyone wavering from the greater good, and get on with the business of building a great company.</strong></p>
