<<p>I&#8217;m hearing it a lot lately; it&#8217;s a great time to be buying and an awful time to be selling. This roughly translates to, it&#8217;s a great time to be in the embryonic stages of a PE fund, but a not such a great time to be anything else. But, what happened to the dangers of catching falling daggers?</p><p>There aren&#8217;t many guarantees in life, but fortuitously, <strong>there&#8217;s a guarantee that it&#8217;s not the top of the cycle for PE firms to be buying</strong>. Sure, the economic atrophy can continue, and financial markets currently resemble cosmic black holes, but at least there&#8217;s the comfort of not buying at the top. Ipso facto, you could do a lot worse than make investments in this market.</p><p>As for making a call, I see the current state of the market as a double-edged sword. The lucky PE firms will find great businesses with owners whom are worried enough to sell at lower multiples. But, I also think we&#8217;ll see a spate of rushed deals based mostly on the pretence of low multiples. Of course those multiples may look low now, but if earnings fall&#8230; well, let&#8217;s just say they won&#8217;t be so low anymore.</p><p>The other limiting factor of many current deals is the mud-like flow of debt. For smaller deals that don&#8217;t require syndication, this certainly isn&#8217;t insurmountable. The cautious and prudent move at this stage would be to limit gearing to maybe 2-3 times of earnings, provided cash flow still exists.</p><p>Overall, I think <strong>it&#8217;s a great time to be looking for deals in mid-market private equity</strong>, but certainly a risky time to be rushing into them. Business owners aren&#8217;t exactly capitulating, and those that are, probably run businesses that private equity firms would rather stay well clear of. With that said, I&#8217;m sure there are a few diamonds in trouble that just need a little extra polishing to reflect their true light.</p>
