<p>We all know multiples have fallen, and, we know that for most businesses, earnings have fallen too (see correlation vs causation: industry analysis if you&#8217;re hearing otherwise). But, the problem is that <strong>vendors don&#8217;t always have to sell and so it isn&#8217;t so easy to make cheap investments in a downturn</strong>. Sure, distressed businesses may not have a choice, but solid quality businesses often do have a choice and they can wait and trade back to previous levels before selling.</p><p>For vendors still eager to sell now (for whatever personal reasons), they seem prepared to take a haircut, but not always in the order of the buyer&#8217;s expectations. This raises an issue with the typical private equiteer. <strong>Do I pay the higher price </strong>because the business has traded very well for the past 5 years, <strong>or do I pass on the deal</strong> since the performance hit could be indicative of other problems? Maybe earnings will be back to $50m next year, but just maybe they&#8217;ll drop further to $10m and stay down there.</p><p>I don&#8217;t have any hard and fast answers, but I will say that <strong>great businesses can experience arrhythmias too</strong>. If due diligence (DD) on the business is favourable, it&#8217;s a great opportunity to get in at an unprecedented price. I&#8217;m the first to acknowledge private equity is all about risk mitigation, but there&#8217;s something said for buying a great business at an average price compared to an average business at a great price, especially when the average price would represent a great price in normal economic conditions.</p><p>We&#8217;re looking at three separate deals like this now, two in the States and one in Europe, and we&#8217;re currently pondering this very issue. The vendors want more than we&#8217;d normally pay for the latest earnings (and sure there&#8217;s some room for negotiation), but <strong>conceivably the most recent earnings don&#8217;t represent maintainable earnings</strong>. There&#8217;s great potential here, enough to make a material difference to fund performance, but there&#8217;s also a lot of risk, which is hard to stomach for an ultra-risk-averse firm.</p>
