<<p>When faced with the task of deal origination, one quickly realises there&#8217;s low-hanging deal fruit and five-storey high deal fruit. What I mean is that some deals are much easier to find, negotiate and close than others. However, <strong>most of the low-hanging deal fruit is hotly contested</strong>, ergo, it&#8217;s highly price-inflated, ergo, it doesn&#8217;t make the best investment sense, ergo, it&#8217;s not so fruity after all. But, who said life was easy anyway?</p><p>At the other extreme, more difficult deal origination sources (such as those that require complex collaboration) often just waste time; this becomes obvious after one or two drawn-out failures. (They get your hopes up when you&#8217;re a greenhorn, but you quickly learn to save time in future.) So this begs the question, what is the sweet spot for mid-market private equity?</p><p>Well, I believe the cumquat of deal origination (read: sweet, yet salty; succulent, yet bite-sized), is the deal that isn&#8217;t hotly contested because it isn&#8217;t shopped around, but it should be hotly contested because it represents great value and great potential. <strong>This deal originates via a cold call or a warm lead from an industry event. </strong>Often, in this deal Elysium, the vendor is a business owner that is great at their trade, but isn&#8217;t financially sophisticated enough to have approached an investment bank. The business may not be in the most obvious industry for value creation, <strong>but the product or service offering will have a quirky competitive advantage that is brilliant in its simplicity.</strong> This deal origination is probably right under your nose.</p><p>In short, it&#8217;s not the low-hanging fruit you should be after; it&#8217;s the fruit sitting on the ground under a big leaf that if approached correctly, doesn&#8217;t even require the raising of an arm to grasp. The beauty is that even though deal origination fruit so close, the majority won&#8217;t take time to look under the cover/leaf.</p>
