<<p>As discussed in Term Sheet Treatise, the purpose of a term sheet is to propose deal terms and value. But, <strong>another underlying purpose of the term sheet (for the private equiteer) is to secure exclusivity over the deal</strong>. The exclusivity clause, which is often the only legally binding clause in the term sheet, bars the vendor from pimping the deal to other competitive parties.</p><p>In some cases, vendors approach private equiteers to confirm a price offered by another party. The vendor doesn&#8217;t intend to proceed with the private equiteer; <strong>they simply want to ensure they&#8217;re getting a good price from the other party</strong>. Sometimes, this could lead to an actual investment, but sometimes pigs can fly too. It&#8217;s relatively safe to say that these situations always waste time; hence, the exclusivity clause.</p><p>Of course, the vendor can do whatever they want in practice, irrespective of what a piece of paper dictates. And even when the clause is legally binding, the fact is, <strong>there&#8217;s very little recourse for the private equiteer</strong>. However, term sheets are Darwinian in nature and have evolved to include breach fees within the exclusivity clause. If the vendor solicits the deal to another party within a predetermined period (often 45 days), they are asked to pay the fee. The vendor can wait for the period to lapse, but the fee still works as a great filter.</p><p>I say this because it verifies if a party is serious about a deal. And, suffice to say, a private equiteer only wants to deal with serious vendors. With that said, <strong>I also wonder how many deals fail due to the imposing nature of the breach fee</strong>. These fees can easily get into the millions of dollars, so they can be quite off-putting. But, you win some, you lose some. As your time in private equity passes and you become jaded by losing deals that were never deals in the first place, you won&#8217;t mind the odd false positive.</p>
