<p>My experience is that <strong>most investees suffer from a lack of financial discipline</strong>. And, with almost every investment my firm has made, we&#8217;ve had to somehow improve the financial expertise in each investee. The most obvious in-house alternative to hiring a new financial controller is to monitor the financials and make regular process improvements ourselves (as private equiteers). But, this can quickly become burdensome as the private equity portfolio grows.</p><p><strong>A midway solution is to hire a financial controller at the private equity fund level</strong> to oversee and improve financial management across the entire portfolio. The advantages of this are manifold:</p><ul><li>A single overseer of financial performance can<strong> provide the private equity team with consistent data</strong> across all investees (same template, same metrics, same formulas, same processes, same assumptions, etc.)</li><li><strong>It is much cheaper</strong>; hiring a great (opposed to good) financial controller for each and every investee is very expensive at the mid-market level</li><li>In many cases, <strong>you&#8217;re spared firing a good financial manager </strong>(in exchange for a great one), who likely has years of experience in the business and is therefore a wealth of investee-specific knowledge</li><li><strong>It frees up the investment team</strong> from having to deal with minor financial compliance issues</li></ul><p>The largest disadvantage of hiring a firm-wide financial controller is that if you hire a dud, they could potentially create issues across your entire portfolio. Other than that, it&#8217;s a good idea for firms looking to have more time for strategic value-add. <strong>You can even charge the controller&#8217;s salary to each of the investees</strong>, rather than have him/her erode your management fees. Win, win.</p>
