<p>When focusing on retail segments, we often discover franchised businesses. <strong>The primary argument supporting the franchise model is that entrepreneurial, heavily invested and closely aligned individuals operate each of the stores.</strong> If you compare this to salaried employees working<em> just another job </em>(as managers of stores), you can see how franchising makes a lot of sense.</p><p>In most franchise businesses, there&#8217;s<strong> constant conjecture around the ideal balance of franchised versus company-owned stores</strong>. Prima facie, you may think company-owned stores breach the idea of the franchise model, but we also interminably hear how repurchased stores operate more profitably when company-owned.</p><p>Maybe franchises only work in certain industries, maybe it&#8217;s just not easy to find great entrepreneurs to run stores, or <strong>maybe the fault lies with franchisors</strong>.</p><p>As a private equiteer, it&#8217;s important to analyse the dynamics and differences between franchised and company-owned stores. But, more importantly, <strong>be wary of bold plans to repurchase stores just because the franchisor thinks they&#8217;ll become more profitable</strong>. I see countless deals solely based on this premise, but I just don&#8217;t buy it. If anything, these audacious repurchase plans seem to be exercise in palliation, rather than value creation. And, they&#8217;re especially questionable if the businesses success was founded on the original franchise model.</p><p>With all of that said, company-owned stores are great for franchisee training, market and product testing, and benchmarking; they&#8217;re not all bad like it may sound. <strong>There are also situations in which the franchise model was only originally needed as a workaround for limited capital. </strong>And in these situations, it&#8217;s hard to make a case against a franchisor looking to buy back great money earners with the support of a friendly private equiteer.<strong> </strong></p><p>Just be wary of spurious claims and Band-Aid solutions for terminal problems.</p>
