<p>So, a typical deal may sound like&#8230; I&#8217;ll pay you $x for your business, of which $y is paid now and $z is paid if you meet next year&#8217;s EBITDA budget. The $z, which is predicated on future earnings, represents an earn out. That is, <strong>the vendor has to earn that additional capital payment by hitting budget</strong>. I&#8217;ve written about funding earn outs many times before, which you may like to visit before continuing:</p><ul><li>Are earn outs fair… or just a product of private equity avarice?</li><li>The value-based components of a private equity deal</li><li>Unpaid earn outs and discontented vendors</li></ul><p>But, when the time comes and the business has exceeded its EBITDA target, <strong>where does the money come from to pay the vendor to finance the earn out</strong>? If you&#8217;re buying 100% of the business, the vendor doesn&#8217;t really care where you get the cash from (as long as it is paid) because they no longer have an interest in the business. However, if the vendor is retaining a share of the business or if there are other shareholders remaining in the business then they will certainly care about funding the earn out.</p><p>Let&#8217;s use an example. If I pay you $100m for 50% of your business, but $20m of that is earn out financing (so $80m up front), you may assume it&#8217;s all coming from my own pocket (or the bank&#8217;s). But, <strong>what if I suggest the company&#8217;s cash flow covers the earn out?</strong> Well, since you will still own 50% of the business, you will essentially be paying $10m of your own earn out.</p><p>Now, this isn&#8217;t necessarily a deceptive term suggested by the buyer; <strong>it&#8217;s simply a valuation play</strong>. Of course this structure would be disclosed upfront for you to analyse, so all I&#8217;m saying here is that it&#8217;s an interesting way to adjust value in a deal to meet conflicting expectations. In the above example, you would receive $100m if the business met budget, but theoretically $90m is from my pocket and $10m is from your own. As long as you think of it this way, there&#8217;s no issue.</p>
