<<blockquote><p>All courses of action are risky, so prudence is not in avoiding danger (it&#8217;s impossible), but calculating risk and acting decisively. <strong>Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth</strong>. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer. <em>Niccolò Machiavelli</em></p></blockquote><p>Private equity is a juggle of many roles, most of which rely on explicit risk calculation. And as with any juggling act, <strong>mistakes are inevitable</strong>. But that&#8217;s okay because we learn from mistakes and we probably learn more from mistakes than successes. However, there&#8217;s a catch.</p><p>If I touch a hot plate and burn my hand, I learn that it&#8217;s hot and that I shouldn&#8217;t touch it again. If I touch it again, then the mistake is reinforced. But if I continue to touch the hot plate, I&#8217;m not learning a whole lot more, <strong>I&#8217;m just getting burned</strong>.</p><p>We make mistakes of sloth (laziness) every day. We know laziness, contemplation and apathy are all toxic to progress. So, just like touching a hot plate over and over again, <strong>being slothful loses it&#8217;s punch pretty quickly</strong>. We may get some other benefit from being slothful (such as relaxation), but an education isn&#8217;t one of them.</p><p>On the other hand, mistakes of ambition are generally different day-to-day. We tend to learn something profound from each and every ambitious pursuit, even if it&#8217;s not immediately obvious.</p><p>In the context of private equity, you&#8217;ll learn nothing from NOT contacting a potential investee. But at a minimum, you&#8217;ll fine-tune your &#8216;get around the gatekeeper&#8217; skills if you do call. And more than likely, you&#8217;ll have a valuable chat with an industry professional, <strong>which may even lead to a successful investment</strong>. The same goes for investee improvement; you&#8217;ll learn much more from conducting analysis and making suggestions, compared to doing nothing.</p><p>If things aren&#8217;t going as you planned, is it due to <strong>mistakes of ambition or sloth</strong>?</p>
