<<p>In a previous post, I talked about the amplifying effect of diminishing sales. I gave a short example in which a company had sales of $100m. This company had variable costs of $40m and fixed costs of $40m; hence, EBITDA of $20m. A 20% loss equals sales now of $80m, variable costs of $32m (using the same gross margin), fixed costs of $40m (because they&#8217;re fixed), and EBITDA of $8m. <strong>In short, a 20% drop in sales led to a 60% drop in EBITDA.</strong></p><p>I want to take this example a little further to show the amplifying effects of debt. So let&#8217;s use our two scenarios from above; Scenario 1 is the business with $100m sales and $20m EBITDA, while Scenario 2 represents some period later when sales drop to $80m and EBITDA is $8m. (Quick note: <strong>see how EBITDA margin dropped from 20% to 10%? </strong>That&#8217;s due to the fixed costs staying&#8230; fixed. And this isn&#8217;t an extreme case; it&#8217;s actually based on conservative numbers.)</p><p>Let&#8217;s assume the market is paying 5x EBITDA for this type of business. In Scenario 1, that means enterprise value (EV) is $100m, while in Scenario 2, enterprise value has fallen to $40m. When we made our investment into this business, we were quite conservative by employing debt of 3x EBITDA; so let&#8217;s assume net debt for the business is $60m. In Scenario 1, we invested $40m of equity with the $60m of debt to buy the business. But, <strong>now that sales have dropped, we&#8217;re worried about the value of our equity investment.</strong></p><p>Well, you can probably see where this is going. With a drop in sales of 20%, which hypothetically led to a drop in EBITDA of 60%, we now have a business with an EV of $40m, with net debt of $60m, and hence, a negative equity value of $20m. <strong>That&#8217;s right, our investment is worth less than zero; it&#8217;s worth negative $20m. All of this, just from a 20% drop in sales. </strong>Quite a sobering thought.</p>
