<<p>An agreement on value doesn&#8217;t necessarily signal the end of all deal negotiations and troubles. <strong>Partisan vendors will likely hand the business over with zero debtors, zero inventory and a mountain of creditors&#8230; oh, and no cash, of course. </strong>A scenario like this may see you paying <em>millions more</em> for a business than you had originally planned.</p><p>As I&#8217;ve discussed in a litany of net working capital discourses, working capital goes to value. But, it&#8217;s not just the value imputed to the business at a particular point in time; it drives the value you&#8217;ll actually get when the business is handed over. And, <strong>the last thing you want is to base your valuation on favourable working capital terms and receive the business in an opposite state.</strong></p><p>The simplest solution is to decide the settlement accounts at the time of valuation. That is, <strong>place a few imaginary stakes in the ground and peg your working capital drivers</strong> (decide a fixed amount for inventory, debtors, creditors, cash, etc). If at settlement net working capital is not equal to the trigger amount, then the purchase price is adjusted on an equal basis ($1 less in working capital leads to $1 downward adjustment to the price paid). Many private equiteers will try to enforce a one-way adjustment,  but as Sergey and Larry say, don&#8217;t be evil.</p><p>This isn&#8217;t a perfect solution. But, it is a solution designed to be communicated upfront with complete transparency. It will avoid most resentment later on because <strong>there is a lot less subjectivity</strong>. With that said, there will be some subjectivity in deciding the trigger values for the net working capital drivers, but ideally you can make a case based on rigorous analysis of the historic financials.</p><p>The simple rule is that <strong>you value a business as a going concern and so the business should be left to you as a going concern</strong> (therefore, not requiring extraneous investment to support net working capital after purchase). Make sure you decide early what constitutes a going concern and then stick to your guns.</p><p>net working capital (which is as well accepted as “net working capital” or the brand “NWC”) is a altitude of the operating clamminess accessible for a aggregation to use in developing and growing its business. The net working capital can be affected actual artlessly by adding a company&#8217;s absolute accepted liabilities from its absolute accepted assets.</p><p>Through this formula, a net working capital bulk can be bent to be either absolute or negative. Naturally, this will await abundantly on the bulk of debt owed by the company. It should not appear as a abruptness that accepting affluence of net working capital tends to advice companies accomplish added success. This follows because net working capital allows companies to abound calmly and accomplish all-important improvements to their accumulated operations.</p><p>On the added hand, companies that are operating with abrogating net working capital may not accept the banking abutment or adaptability to abound and/or improve, even if such developments would be indicated. Hence, net working capital can be an indicator of the all-embracing backbone of a company.</p><p>There are three capital indicators acclimated in artful net working capital. Elements of the “current assets” ancillary of the blueprint will cover accounts receivable, as able-bodied as any account of appurtenances on-hand. “Current liabilities” will cover accounts payable.</p><p>A absolute change in a company&#8217;s net working capital will about announce one of two developments. Either the aggregation has added its accepted assets by accepting banknote (or some added anatomy of assets), or it has minimized its liabilities – generally by paying off a concise creditor.</p>
