<p>A covenant not to compete (non compete), or non compete clause, places limitations on vendors competing in the same industry after they sell their business. As you can imagine,<strong> it can be extremely damaging competing against someone whom has spent many years building (and learning how to build) a business in the same industry</strong>. Not only that, but imagine that this same person knows the strategy, tactics and all minutia of your new investment. Imagine, how tough a competitor this person could be.</p><p>This scenario is what a non compete attempts to stop. It attempts to restrict the vendors from competing with the business, in similar regions, over a relatively lengthy time-frame. However, in certain regions (such as California) there is a non compete prohibition, <strong>and in other regions where a non compete is enforceable, the level of enforceability is open to debate</strong>. In some ways, non compete enforceability is similar to garden leave enforceability; courts often rule that barring someone from earning a living is not just. Exceptions exist if there is a blatant intent to operate in competition.</p><p>In regions where enforceability can be relied upon, term sheets generally include a non compete as standard. From the perspective of the private equiteer, the vendor shouldn&#8217;t expect fair value if they plan on destroying that value later with proprietary knowledge. And, from the perspective of the vendor, they shouldn&#8217;t be barred from their field if all doesn&#8217;t go according to plan. However,<strong> as with most terms, it&#8217;s about balancing preferences.</strong></p>
