<<p>Have you ever asked yourself <strong>what qualifies and what does not qualify as private equity?</strong> I certainly haven&#8217;t been ordained to make a claim either way, and it&#8217;s not as if it really matters what you label an investment, but let&#8217;s try to make a distinction for the same reason Hillary climbed Everest&#8230; because we can.</p><p>By way of its namesake, private equity should be &#8220;private&#8221; and involve &#8220;equity&#8221;. But, what does that mean? <strong>The word &#8220;private&#8221; could refer to the source of capital, the ownership of the investment or the publishing of financial reports. </strong>If you put the words &#8220;private&#8221; and &#8220;equity&#8221; together, then you&#8217;d imagine that the &#8220;private&#8221; refers to equity from private sources. However, that would rule out listed private equity (LPE) as genuine private equity, which I don&#8217;t agree with (see this post for my LPE discussion).</p><p>I&#8217;ve previously said that <strong>I prefer to think of private equity as a methodology</strong> rather than a class of capital. So, this makes me think of the &#8220;private&#8221; in private equity as referring to privately held investees (or very soon to be private, in the case of Public-to-Private buyouts). Of course, this rules out PIPES (Private Investments into Public EquitieS), but I&#8217;m okay with that because PIPES don&#8217;t adhere to my idea of the private equity methodology.</p><p>But, private equity is more than just an investment into a private company; we&#8217;re still left with the word &#8220;equity&#8221;. Well, <strong>I&#8217;m a big believer in private equity being about investments as equity or any instrument with unlimited upside potential</strong>. Sure, some funds invest through mezzanine debt and preferred stock with liquidation caps, but for me, real private equity has full access to the upside. That&#8217;s not to say I think firms shouldn&#8217;t have any other exposure, just that most of it should be via real equity with real upside.</p><p>Just to summarise, I believe genuine private equity refers to <em>equity </em>investments into <em>private </em>companies. However, that&#8217;s still too broad; any old investment fund or wealthy individual could fit into that definition. <strong>To wrap up my definition of private equity, the investor has to be active in the business and add strategic value to the business; they must be professional investors and business people. </strong>They must act as directors, managers, staff, investors, stakeholders, and value creators. For me, this is the essence of private equity.</p><p>As for what I think doesn&#8217;t qualify as private equity; any minority investment into a public company, any investment as a passive investor, or any investment that doesn&#8217;t give the investor enough influence to make a difference. I certainly don&#8217;t buy the idea that you&#8217;re only private equity if you&#8217;re registered with your local PE or VC association;<strong> if anything, it&#8217;s more nobel to be an active, long-term, private portfolio investor without the penchant to be called &#8220;private equity&#8221;</strong> (think Buffett and Branson&#8230; before they listed).</p>
