<p>I&#8217;m not talking about us, private equiteers (although that argument probably has merit too), I&#8217;m talking about our investees. We were leveraging them to 2-4x EBITDA (in mid-market deals) <strong>but today&#8217;s EBITDA isn&#8217;t yesterday&#8217;s EBITDA and hence the multiple may not be 2-4x anymore</strong>. On top of that, we leveraged to the point where covenants were tight and now, well, let&#8217;s just say they&#8217;re not tight anymore because they&#8217;ve been smacked out of the park. Okay, maybe that&#8217;s an exaggeration, my firm&#8217;s covenants are borderline, as long as borderline means safely into breaching territory (see insert of orca breaching).</p><p>So going through a similar example from a previous post, consider a business that is doing sales of $100m, has a gross margin of 60%, EBITDA of $20m, debt of 4x EBITDA ($80m) and interest payments of 7% ($5.6m). Let&#8217;s say sales drop 20%, so there&#8217;s an instant loss of gross profit of $12m. So EBITDA is now $8m and you still have interest payments of $5.6m. On the positive side, you still have the paper earnings to potentially pay your interest. On the downside, your debt is now 10x EBITDA (<strong>Over leveraged!</strong>), your EBITDA is less than 2x interest payments (<strong>over leveraged!</strong>), and you can almost be certain your FCF won&#8217;t cover principal and interest payments (<strong>over leveraged!</strong>). You know what they say about three strikes&#8230;?</p><p>I don&#8217;t mean to sound like a killjoy, but this is the landscape of private equity now. This even goes for the mid-market managers that have lamented high leverage ratios and are self-professed conservatives. A drop in sales from an economic downturn can have serious consequences and that&#8217;s before thinking about debt covenants. Throw a covenant or two into the mix and the result isn&#8217;t pretty. <strong>Here&#8217;s hoping for more sales and fewer whales</strong> (the breaching variety).</p>
