<<p>There can be a fine line between investing in great businesses and investing for investment&#8217;s sake.  A great business may have risks, it may have question marks, but it only takes a handful of information and 30 minutes with the prospective manager to have <em>that</em> feeling. That feeling doesn&#8217;t negate the need for rigorous analysis, but it goes a long way to making sure you&#8217;re on the right track in terms of acceptable private equity risk management.</p><p>The purpose of this foreword is to propose that <strong>it is very easy to use a risk management strategy as a tool to justify a not-so-great investment</strong>. Private equity risk management is temporal; a valuation should be based on the risks of an investment at the time of the investment, not just what they&#8217;re planned to be at a later point in time. For example, if a business only offers one product, your valuation should be congruent with this concentration risk. Don&#8217;t pay a price that is contingent upon the acquisition of an unknown business that you expect to diversify the product base. <strong>If you&#8217;re doing the work to improve the business, why pay the vendor for your hard work? </strong></p><p>The theory of private equity risk management requires (and deserves) a large tome. However, as an aside, I&#8217;d like to share the very basics of the risk management process. The steps in the process according to the International Standards Organisation, although slightly abridged, are as follows:</p><ol><li><strong>Establish context</strong>: understand the situation and the need for adequate risk management. In a private equity context, realise it is linked to price and performance and is a prescient concern.</li><li><strong>Identification</strong>: think about objectives, scenarios, best practice, etc. to identify the risks that are present. Look at other businesses and their risks to ensure you&#8217;ve been exhaustive.</li><li><strong>Assessment (analyse and evaluate)</strong>: analyse the risks and understand their likelihood, impact, sources, consequences, etc. Evaluate this data to prioritise the mitigation of the risks.</li><li><strong>Treatment (plan, implement, review)</strong>: create a plan to treat the risks, but remember treatment means treating them now, not in the future. Implement the treatments and review success. Ensure that a variety of objective people agree with the treatment and the perceived results.</li></ol><p>I hope this has helped, but more critically, the purpose of my post was to propose that private equity risk management is temporal. <strong>Planning to ameliorate a risk in the future doesn&#8217;t mean you have managed it now</strong>. Also, invoke an iterative risk management process and be diligent about the entire concept. After all, it can literally mean the difference between a horrific failure and an outstanding success.</p><p>I found the ISO principles for private equity risk management while conducting research and thought they may prove useful in jerking one&#8217;s memory when conducting a risk assessment. On reflection, some of them sound a little too bureaucratic to me, but most are worth the effort.</p><ul><li>Risk management should <strong>create value</strong></li><li>Risk management should be an integral part of organizational processes</li><li>Risk management should be part of decision making</li><li>Risk management should <strong>explicitly address uncertainty</strong></li><li>Risk management should be systematic and structured</li><li>Risk management should be <strong>based on the best available information</strong></li><li>Risk management should be tailored</li><li>Risk management should <strong>take into account human factors</strong></li><li>Risk management should be transparent and inclusive</li><li>Risk management should be dynamic, iterative and responsive to change</li><li>Risk Management should be capable of continual improvement and enhancement</li></ul><p>I&#8217;ve said it many times before, but <strong>private equity is about risk management (or value preservation) first and value creation second</strong>. It is unnecessary to take undue risks, especially when the mid-market end of the industry has access to so many different opportunities.</p>
