<<p>Hiring new staff has always puzzled me. You spend an hour, maybe two, maybe even three to get to <em>know</em> each other in the private equity team. Then you say &#8220;I do&#8221;, lift the veil, consummate the relationship with a handshake and that&#8217;s that. Signed, sealed and delivered.</p><p>But, imagine&#8230; just imagine you told your mother (or your best friend) that <strong>you were about to marry someone after knowing them for only a couple of hours</strong>. And, imagine telling them that you didn&#8217;t just meet this person randomly. You prepped them on exactly what you were looking for and were truly surprised when they said things that made you happy.</p><p>I hear you. Yes, there&#8217;s a big difference between private equity team employment and marriage. Sure, you see your husband/wife at least three hours a day, while you see your employees only between 10 and 12 hours a day. Agreed; big difference.</p><p>So, I&#8217;m thinking, all of the wisdom you hear about getting to know someone before marriage should also apply to private equity team employment. Moving in with them, enduring their <em>habits, </em>arguing with them, making up with them (hey, hey)&#8230; all of the stuff that is prattled on about by older learned folk. Of course by this I mean <strong>you should trial them.</strong></p><p>Now, I don&#8217;t mean put the private equity team on probation, so if they kill someone or defraud you for a billion franc you&#8217;ll fire them. I mean put them on a fixed contract for a month with the intent that they&#8217;ll only be hired temporarily. Naturally, you&#8217;ll mention the potential to land a full-time gig, but you&#8217;ll also explain the uncertainty. <strong>Don&#8217;t even give them a title</strong>; call them a consultant or executive or something equally vague.</p><p>During this period, you can work them into the ground, enjoy a warm ale with them, put them in front of intimidating clients, have at least one heated argument with them and if you&#8217;re lucky,<strong> you&#8217;ll be able to tell if they really have what it takes to work in your esteemed organisation</strong>. Sure they can put on an act for a month, but that&#8217;s much harder than for just 60 minutes.</p>
