<p>This post follows on from these previous posts:</p><ul><li>What&#8217;s the deal with capex anyway?</li><li>Free cash… flow, a primer</li><li>The free cash flow capex conundrum</li></ul><p>In all of my posts about FCF, I haven&#8217;t yet mentioned why investment bankers and private equiteers don&#8217;t use FCF in private equity valuation practice. Well, <strong>FCF is still too &#8220;bottom line&#8221; for business valuation</strong>. It includes taxes and, depending on what version you use (there&#8217;s FCF, FCFE &amp; FCFF), it can still be swayed by capital structure. This is why good ol&#8217; EBITDA still forms the basis of most valuations.</p><p>However, EBITDA isn&#8217;t the perfect measure for private equity valuation either; it is still an accounting construct. The advantage of EBITDA over FCF/FCFE/FCFF is that it is independent of depreciation, cost of capital (such as interest on debt) and taxes. <strong>The disadvantage of EBITDA is that it doesn&#8217;t account for capex, which is a vital driver to ongoing earnings. </strong>The other difference compared to FCF, is that EBITDA still includes accrued debtors and creditors. However, for the purpose of business valuation, this is a better representation of the future (as long as there&#8217;s no fraudulent manipulation) because accrual accounting is forward looking.</p><p>The implication of the capex omission (from EBITDA in a private equity valuation) is that the EBITDA of one business doesn&#8217;t compare well to the EBITDA of another business; the reason being that each may have different capex profiles. In a previous post, I explained that <strong>we can&#8217;t just use historical capex to adjust FCF (or in this case EBITDA), because it usually contains one-off items. </strong>So, what many people do is use EBIT as their earnings proxy and for private equity valuations because it accounts for capex via depreciation (the argument being that depreciation is a good proxy for capex). Of course, this is fraught with danger because the past isn&#8217;t the future and the future isn&#8217;t the past. If anything, most businesses will spend more on capex than they depreciate as they grow and enter different industries.</p><p>Unfortunately, the solution isn&#8217;t so simple. In my opinion, <strong>the best earnings measure to use for business valuation is a maintainable and forward-looking EBITDA figure adjusted for the capex required to operate the business under normal conditions</strong>. Most of the work will probably go into understanding the real capex position of the business, but at least you can sleep well knowing you&#8217;ve invested on robust, rigorous and realistic analysis. So just to recap, the potential measure for earnings when calculating value includes:</p><ul><li><strong>NPAT </strong>- almost never used, too &#8220;bottom line&#8221; and a pure accounting construct</li><li><strong>FCF </strong>- still too &#8220;bottom line&#8221;, capex is often backward looking, rarely used in valuation</li><li><strong>EBITDA </strong>- ignores capex, which is an absolute sin, but this measure is commonly used</li><li><strong>EBIT </strong>- ignores the evolving nature of capex, sometimes used, 2nd best of many bad options</li><li><strong>EBIT-DAC </strong>- can still be manipulated by accruals, but the best of a bad lot</li></ul><p>For the record, in Europe, <strong>EBITDA minus capex is denoted as EBIT-DAC or EBITDAC</strong>.</p>
