<<p>This wouldn&#8217;t be a technical private equity blog without a rundown of private equity strategy. This is staple reading elsewhere, but the fact I&#8217;ve left it this late is probably an indication of how important (or unimportant) it really is. OK, I&#8217;m not saying what follows is complete dross, I just don&#8217;t think there&#8217;s a need to harp on about classifications. After all, private equity strategy is more about actionable initiatives than classifications and words.</p><ol><li><strong>Management Buyout (MBO)</strong>: this is the renowned buyout model from the boom in the &#8217;80s, although they called them Leveraged Buyouts (LBOs) then. It simply means that the management team in a business buys the business from the existing owners with support of private equity.</li><li><strong>Management Buyin (MBI)</strong>: this is very similar to the MBO, except a manager or management team from outside the company purchases and manages the business. In some respects, this entails more risk than an MBO because the new managers are foreign to the intricate details of the business.</li><li><strong>Buyin Management Buyout (BIMBO)</strong>: this term allows the word &#8220;bimbo&#8221; around the office without the threat of a harassment lawsuit. Seriously though, it is just a combination of an MBO and MBI, where managers from inside and outside the company unite as investors.</li><li><strong>Public-to-Private (P2P)</strong>: this is the purchase of all publicly listed shares in a business to have it delisted from the exchange and classified as &#8220;privately owned&#8221;. Often there are perceived benefits in escaping regular public scrutiny and the requisite reporting, hence the motivation to do a P2P.</li><li><strong>Secondary Buyout</strong>: this is the purchase of an investee business from another private equity fund, either because it has outgrown the fund or because the selling fund doesn&#8217;t see value in keeping it. In rare cases, it can also involve buying a business from a fund managed by the same firm.</li><li><strong>Expansion Capital</strong>: this is the investment of new capital as new shares into a business to facilitate growth. In a pure expansion deal, the existing shareholders stay on the register and 100% of the invested funds (less fees and costs) enter the business as cash.</li></ol><p>In practice, most deals and a lot of private equity strategy is a combination of these investment typed. Often some money leaves the table and some money enters the company, represented by new shares. One could argue that the value proposition of private equity isn&#8217;t crystallised without some capital entering the business as cash to support growth. The one exception is if the business has cash and is just looking for someone to support a sell down by another investor.</p><p>Private equity strategy is about wish to buy companies or locations of companies for their portfolios, adjustment them, enhance them, and advertise them on. The investment aeon is hardly beneath than a year and can be as continued as 10 years, but the cold is consistently to advertise the business on at a abundant profit. Clandestine investors accept three basic investment strategies:</p><p>Venture basic is a private equity strategy of Private Equity that commonly refers to disinterestedness investments in beneath complete companies. Venture basic is about subdivided according to the appearance of ability of the company, alignment from basic acclimated for the barrage of start-up companies to later-stage and advance capital. It is about acclimated to armamentarium the amplification of an absolute business that is breeding acquirement but may not yet be assisting or breeding acceptable banknote breeze to armamentarium approaching investment.</p><p>Growth basic refers to private equity strategy investments (most about boyhood investments) in added complete companies that are searching for basic to restructure operations, access new markets, or accounts a above accretion after a change in the ascendancy of the business.</p><p>The leveraged buyout (LBO) is a action of private equity strategy investment whereby a company, business unit, or business asset is acquired from the accepted shareholders, about with the use of banking leverage. The companies complex in these buyouts are about added complete and accomplish banknote flows.</p><p>Occasionally, investments are fabricated in afflicted or appropriate situations, area the disinterestedness or debt balance of a afflicted aggregation are apart as a aftereffect of a one-off opening, such as bazaar agitation or changes in banking regulations.</p>
