<<p>Before you ask (and you shouldn&#8217;t need to ask), a private equity firm&#8217;s <strong>first best friend</strong> is carry. Coming in a distant second, a very distant second, a private equiteer&#8217;s <strong>next best friend is tax</strong>.</p><p>Here are the reasons:</p><ol><li>The typical private equity investment is highly geared, ipso facto, it has high interest expenses. Those high interest expenses provide a tax shield, which means <strong>private equity investees often don&#8217;t pay a cent of tax</strong>. And not paying tax while receiving the benefit of others paying tax is a private equiteer-friendly concept.</li><li>Tax gives private equiteers a bargainning chip. All of a sudden, they can justify paying a lower price because of the tax implications. They can refuse to grant management options because of the tax implications. They can make a case for their preferred legal structure because of the tax implications. They can gear the business up to its eyeballs because of the private equity tax implications. <strong>They can justify just about anything because no sane person understands the Internal Revenue Code </strong>(or whatever applicable tax code) in enough detail to debate it.</li><li>Lastly, <strong>a private equiteer&#8217;s heartfelt campaign to have the vendor pay less private equity tax creates an alignment of interest</strong>. <em>&#8220;I want you to pay less tax because it increases the value of the transaction for you, it helps us both create a better business for your employees, and&#8230; no one likes the tax man (chuckle, chuckle).&#8221; </em>How could you turn down a line like that? You&#8217;d love it if you were a vendor, wouldn&#8217;t you?. Now that we&#8217;re best buddies with a common enemy, I proceed to show why I should pay you less for the business, why the strike price on your options should be higher (so they don&#8217;t incur private equity tax) and why the business should be geared at 6 x EBITDA.</li></ol><p>So, to recap, private equity firms love tax because they don&#8217;t have to pay it and still get the benefit, it creates a bargaining chip, and it helps to show alignment with vendors. I&#8217;d be a billionaire if I was paid a million dollars every time I heard a private equiteer raise the strike price on management options citing private equity tax implications. <strong>My advice, just give it to people straight; they tend to value that.</strong></p>
