<<p>The terms of an equity ratchet predicate its value. Often the terms don&#8217;t just state that, for example, &#8220;our equity will ratchet up 5% if your EBIT falls below $30m in 2010&#8243;. Usually, <strong>a positive linear scale is used</strong> to incrementally ratchet the equity according to a predetermined range of earnings.</p><p>This is best demonstrated with an example. So, we have a 70% stake in an investee with 2009 EBIT of $30m. We invest with the proviso that an equity ratchet applies to 2010 earnings, whereby, <strong>for every $100k the EBIT drops below $30m in 2010, our equity ratchets up 0.1%</strong>. There is a cap on this to prevent us taking over the entire company in a bad year. The cap is at a maximum of an extra 15% of equity, which translates to a range of $15-30m. Therefore, if EBIT in 2010 drops all the way to $15m, our equity ratchets up 15% to a total of 85%.</p><p>The first thing you&#8217;ll notice here is that in practice, <strong>an equity ratchet rarely achieves a perfect equilibrium around your original paid multiple</strong>. What I mean is, if you invested $105m for your 70% stake (which equals a 5x EBIT multiple), the equity ratchet doesn&#8217;t help you keep your original 5x multiple. If EBIT did drop to $15m and your equity ratcheted up to 85%, then you&#8217;re effectively invested at an 8.2x multiple (all else equal and no applicable debt).</p><p>You may ask&#8230; <em>why can&#8217;t the ratchet maintain our original multiple?</em> Put simply, other investors just wouldn&#8217;t go for it because <strong>the risk of losing their entire stock-holding is very likely</strong>. Plus, why do you deserve this protection anyway?</p><p>There are many ways you can value this equity ratchet, but in the example above, you can see with the ratchet your effective multiple is 8.2x if EBIT drops to $15m. Whereas, without the ratchet, the multiple would be 10x. The enterprise values in these two instances differ by about $26.5m. Of course, the private equity ratchet isn&#8217;t worth $26.5m because one would hope the probability of EBIT dropping by 50% is less than 100%. If you want to get really technical, <strong>you could value the ratchet at each interval and apply a probability to each scenario and then sum the results</strong>. But, that&#8217;s way too much work and you can&#8217;t really use the calculation in negotiations because it draws attention to the fact that private equity ratchets are <em>evil</em>.</p><p>With all of this said, I recently posted on the concept of the equity ratchet and the  pros and cons of equity ratchets.</p>
