<p>How do all of these professions/careers/livelihoods fit together? A quick definition of each is as follows:</p><ul><li><strong>Private equiteers</strong> &#8211; active financial investors in established businesses that use  gearing to amplify their returns and off-market strategies to grow their portfolio businesses (typically using M&amp;A)</li><li><strong>Venture capitalists</strong> &#8211; active financial investors in earlier-stage (growing) businesses that use their contacts, prestige and experience to help businesses commercialise and monetise their concepts</li><li><strong>Bankers </strong>- deal originators and organisers; often the middlemen between PE deals and other M&amp;A activity; mostly in the public arena, though some deals involve private companies exclusively</li><li><strong>Entrepreneurs </strong>- the people with the imagination and the risk appetite to pursue ideas through to concept, then pursue their concept through to commercialisation and profit</li></ul><p>I believe there is a closer connection between a) bankers and private equiteers, and b) venture capitalists and entrepreneurs. I say this because <strong>private equiteers spend a lot of time sourcing deals</strong>, just like bankers. Whereas,<strong> venture capitalists spend a lot of time short-listing deals</strong> (in which entrepreneurs have approached them) and are therefore much more concerned with the business concept (rather than the sale of capital).</p><p>So what&#8217;s the implication of this? Well, it potentially explains what the ideal skills are for PE and VC firms. <strong>I&#8217;m not saying the best private equiteers are bankers</strong>, just that their skills are more suited to the role of a private equiteer compared to a venture capitalist. For venture capitalists, I believe it&#8217;s more important to have people with real entrepreneurial experience, not only to evaluate deals, but to help commercialise concepts. Comments welcome.</p>
