<<p>This isn&#8217;t a post about bonuses and other monetary incentives. (That&#8217;s already been done to death and we&#8217;re none the wiser.) <strong>This is a post about the psychology of salary vs performance.</strong></p><p>Let&#8217;s start with an analogy.</p><blockquote><p>Imagine you&#8217;re a rock star. You arrive at a nearby hotel with the rest of your band after headlining a concert. The hotel manager tells you there&#8217;s only one room left, and due to high demand from the concert, the last room is renting at a premium. You feel the manager is taking advantage of your fame and extorting you. But, you pay the price anyway because you have no other viable option.</p><p>So, <strong>how will you and your rock star friends treat the room</strong>, given that you feel ripped off?</p></blockquote><p>Simple-minded business people think a transaction ends when the money changes hands. But, it doesn&#8217;t. If you&#8217;re paying money for a product or service, <strong>your perceived value of the transaction will shape and influence your subsequent actions</strong>. You may not trash a hotel like a rock star, but you may use the liquid soap in larger quantities, or drink from the mini-bar without paying, or take a little less care when checking out.</p><p>The same goes for employees. As an employer, it&#8217;s your choice whether you underpay, fairly pay or overpay your staff, but <strong>be aware of the consequences</strong>. Sure, they can leave if they&#8217;re not satisfied, but in private equity and many other industries, work is scarce. There are people out there that will work for a pittance for the chance to enter certain industries. And, they do. But, employers must be careful with this power.</p><p>Just as a ripped off rock star can cause calamity, a ripped off employee simply won&#8217;t provide value. For example, would you rather pay a CTO $90k to work at 20% of their capacity or $140k to work at 80% of their capacity? For some CTOs, the difference in output (from 20% versus 80% capacity) might be negligible. But for most great CTOs, the difference would reach orders of magnitude. <strong>This is the choice you&#8217;re making every time you pay a wage.</strong></p><p>They may not even know they&#8217;re under-performing, you may not even know they&#8217;re under-performing, but it&#8217;s the risk you take. So, don&#8217;t be a manager that underestimates the influence of fair pay. <strong>Great people make great companies and great people don&#8217;t work at high capacity (or for long) on paltry pay grades</strong>. This sounds obvious, but one-dimensional managers continue not to understand the concept.</p><p>Image: The pill or the money? firm</p>
