<p>What would your first thought be if I told you I signed up to Alcoholics Anonymous? You would probably think, &#8220;Wow, I didn&#8217;t know you had a drinking problem.&#8221; Now, what if I told you I signed up to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI)? That&#8217;s right, you&#8217;d think <strong>I have a problem with being a responsible investor</strong>.</p><p>Of course I support good people doing good things, but I just can&#8217;t compute the UNPRI. There are no concrete rules, there&#8217;s no stewardship, there&#8217;s no recourse, nothing. If we boil it down, it&#8217;s a vague guide that <strong>suggests</strong> I shouldn&#8217;t use child labour, or slave labour, or ruin the environment, etc.</p><p>Here&#8217;s a thought, WHY DO I NEED SOMEONE TO TELL ME NOT TO USE SLAVES? Should I pinch myself; am I really in 2010? <strong>Do I need someone to tell me not to be a monster?</strong> Obviously the signatories think so.</p><p>I&#8217;m not questioning the efforts of the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) team; I&#8217;ll assume they have good intentions. What is suspicious, are firms that need to tell the world they aren&#8217;t morally corrupt. (And you know what they say about people that harp on about their own integrity.) If you ask any one of them, they&#8217;ll say they&#8217;re <em>supporting the caus</em><em>e</em> and <em>doing it for the children</em>, but you and I both know<strong> they&#8217;re doing it to display a UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) logo on their website</strong> and, in the process, condemning others as irresponsible.</p><p>It&#8217;s truly disgusting in the context of these issues. If they really want to make a difference, they&#8217;ll donate a % of their carry to these causes (Ha, best joke of the year). My suggestion: do a little more due diligence on PE firms that are signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI).</p><p>This won&#8217;t be a popular view, but it&#8217;s my view. And it goes for similar treaties or protocols; <strong>stop signing pieces of paper and start acting responsibly on a global scale. </strong></p>
