<<p>Some of you may not know this (it should be taught in elementary school):<strong> the rotation and orbit of planet Earth is powered by the continuous pronouncement (by private equiteers) that private equity only invests in the top management teams. </strong>That means, if private equiteers stop drilling this droll into unsuspecting civilians, the world will likely cease to exist. So, in the interests of self-preservation, let&#8217;s all keep this little secret to ourselves:</p><blockquote><p>Private equiteers (especially in the middle market) look for opportunities with a high chance of closure, try to secure great terms on those opportunities and<strong> hope they get top managers they can work with.</strong> If the mangers don&#8217;t work out (too rebellious or clueless), they transition new managers into the investee business. As with any employment process, the best applicant, which agrees to the proposed terms, is hired.</p></blockquote><p>Would a private equiteer prefer to hire the <em>top manager in the industry</em>? Absolutely.<strong> Do private equiteers only do deals in which they believe they have the absolute top manager in the industry? Ha!</strong></p><p>As I&#8217;ve mentioned before, private equiteers don&#8217;t enjoy the same luxuries as venture capitalists; we can&#8217;t be so selective because we&#8217;re dealing with very successful businesses/people whom have myriad options. We do deals that we can do; we don&#8217;t go chasing managers hoping to get lucky. Similarly, we don&#8217;t limit our options to a single company in any industry (the one with the best manager, whomever that may be); we keep our options open.</p><p>So, why do private equiteers insist on spreading this <em>top management team </em>voodoo? Well, it sounds great and is difficult to measure, ergo, who&#8217;s to say you&#8217;re not investing in the best management team? Also, they have to say that because they don&#8217;t have the time, capacity or (often) capability to run these businesses themselves. And, <strong>it&#8217;s scary to think of a highly geared business with mediocre managers and a trigger-happy private equity investor. </strong></p><p>What&#8217;s more, it doesn&#8217;t sound as holistic to sell your firm on its ability to invest on a low multiple, gear a business to the nines, and then sell it at a much higher multiple. The idea of long-term value creation, great managers, entrepreneurial flair and of course total humility is much more&#8230; <em>post-financial-crisis-friendly</em>. But, with all of that hate projected on deal-focused private equity firms, I must say<strong> there are truly great managers out there with real business experience and the nous/drive/passion to make a long-lasting difference. </strong>It&#8217;s just a wheat/chaff sorting exercise for Limited Partners.</p>
