<<p>There are two types of unprofitable customers for investees:</p><ol><li><strong>Those you know will be unprofitable customers</strong>, and</li><li><strong>Those you don&#8217;t know will be unprofitable customers</strong></li></ol><p>The first group is often the result of a &#8220;loss leader&#8221; approach where <strong>you expect to create future value from sacrificing some current value</strong>. The potential future value may be in the form of increased volume, new synergies, higher prices, better reputation, etc.</p><p>Something as simple as sample paint (that you take home to compare to other colours in your home) is a loss leader; the paint company loses money on supplying free paint, but it gains from brand loyalty/awareness, should you like the sample colour and decide to purchase it.</p><p>However, <strong>the risk with loss leaders is that they continue to lose and don&#8217;t start to lead</strong>. Imagine if someone took enough sample paint home to paint their entire house. Or, imagine if potential customers used your sample paint, but bought the identical colour from a competitor at a lower price. So, you really need to keep abreast of  loss leaders and ensure they stop losing and start leading.</p><h2>Theory of Unprofitable Customers</h2><p>The second group of unprofitable customers is generally <strong>the result of mispricing</strong>. Either your investee didn&#8217;t estimate costs accurately or they didn&#8217;t charge the customer enough at the time of purchase. This is inevitable in most businesses, but it shouldn&#8217;t be accepted without action. The loss can be more than just lost profit; it could set a precedent, it could convey a message of inferior quality, or it could create a price war.</p><p>To prevent unprofitable customers, <strong>it is important to monitor investee profitability by customer (in addition to by product/service, by location and by salesperson)</strong>. This granular approach will ensure the sources of losses are found quickly and rectified effectively. If you&#8217;re thinking it sounds overly bureaucratic to take such granular measurements, then you must simplify the process. Get the investee comfortable with a standard reporting template and ensure the process of measuring, calculating and reporting data is consistent.</p><p>And that&#8217;s the theory of unprofitable customers.</p>
