<<p>In deals involving the complete sale of a business, the owner (or vendor) can agree to a partially deferred payment (vendor finance). For example, if you wanted to buy my business for $100m, we could come to an arrangement whereby you pay $60m now and another $40m next year. <strong>Depending on who&#8217;s pulling whose levers, interest may be charged on the deferred payment. </strong>Also, there&#8217;s no rule to say it has to be paid in one year; it could be paid in instalments over three years, it could be paid in a lump sum in five years, or it could be paid when the new owner exits.</p><p>In private equity, <strong>vendor finance is another way to make a deal achieve the separate goals of the vendor and the investor. </strong>For example, if the vendor wants to sell for $100m, but the buyer thinks that is too much, he/she can suggest a deferred payment in the form of vendor financing. This isn&#8217;t because the buyer doesn&#8217;t have the pesos, it&#8217;s to reduce the real value of the deal. Remember time value of money? So, if the vendor finance amount is due in five years, it&#8217;s obviously not worth as much as what the same amount would be if paid today.</p><p><strong>One other thing to remember is that vendor financing isn&#8217;t the same as an earnout. </strong>If the payment is at all contingent on future future, it&#8217;s an earnout, not vendor finance. In the other case where interest applies, the rate can be any amount that the parties agree. The private equity firm will usually insist on a rate that makes the deal right for them on an economic basis (remember, time value of money).</p>
