<<p>In a previous post, I talked about vendor financing. In this post, <strong>I am going to give a numerical vendor finance example  from the point of view from a private equity firm.</strong> Let&#8217;s start with a few assumptions.</p><ul><li>My private equity firm is interested in buying TPE Healthcare</li><li>TPE Healthcare has FY09 EBIT of $10m</li><li>Based on previous analysis, I decide that the highest multiple I will pay is 7x</li><li>The owner of TPE Health care wants $85m for the business</li></ul><p>So, the highest price I can pay (<strong>and justify to my investors</strong>) is 7x $10m, which is $70m. However, the owner (or vendor) wants $85m. In preliminary talks, I explain the concept of vendor financing, and vendor finance example, and that it may help to get the deal done. The vendor wants to retire and I think TPE Healthcare is a great business, so we really want to come to an agreement.</p><p>I start with the idea of paying $50m initially and $35m in three years. The total is $85m, which the vendor wants, but the deferred $35m is worth less when considering a dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow (let&#8217;s assume we don&#8217;t have a deflating value through currency trading). Say I use a 20% discount rate as the opportunity cost of my funds. (So, I&#8217;m inferring that I think I can invest my money for 20% elsewhere if I had to.) Discounting the $35m back to today&#8217;s money results in a present value of 35/(1.2)^3 = $20.25m. <strong>So the real value of the proposed deal is $50m + $20.25m = $70.25m</strong>, which is close enough to the $70m limit that I hoped to pay.</p><p>If we agree on this structure, I&#8217;ll pay $50m upfront with a combination of equity and debt. Then in three years&#8217; time, hopefully the business is performing much better, and I can decide to pay the $35m in either cash or completely with debt (since earnings should be much higher). <strong>The risk, of course, is that the business goes backward and I can&#8217;t afford the $35m.</strong> In this case, I&#8217;d have to call on equity from the fund, which would be a very bad outcome. So, there is certainly risk with vendor financing (as you can see from the vendor finance example), but it&#8217;s important to remember that the present value of the deal is still $70m, which I was fine with paying (as long as I believe in my discount rate too).</p>
