<p>To recap, we care about working capital because it is a direct driver of free cash flow and everyone loves free cash, ergo, everyone cares about working capital. But, before we talk about improving working capital, it&#8217;s important we understand how to measure and monitor it. If we measure it in a consistent way, <strong>we&#8217;ll learn the effectiveness of our improvement initiatives</strong> and may even find ways to create more cash from the same accounting earnings.</p><p>So, what are we actually measuring? We&#8217;re measuring something called <em>working capital absorption</em>. That means, we&#8217;re measuring how much cash is absorbed by our working capital profile. The best case is <em>negative absorption</em> (production of surplus cash) and the worst case is<em> total absorption</em> (no one pays their bills; imminent insolvency). The most common way to measure this absorption is via a ratio of working capital and sales (WC/Sales), <strong>which conceptually tells us what percentage of sales is tied up in paper earnings</strong> and not yet realised as cash.</p><p>The genius of WC/Sales is its simplicity and scalability. Even as a business grows, we can monitor how our working capital profile (and working capital absorption) is changing with that growth. Ideally<strong>, it will get better as our customer and supplier power increases through shear size</strong>, but<strong> it can also get worse if our growth is borne by lower credit standards</strong> and less reliable debtors. Either way, WC/Sales is best measured weekly or even daily and viewed as a trend over weeks or months.</p><p>For a more granular measurements, we can look at the <em>day </em>measurements. That is, debtor days, creditor days and inventory days. Don&#8217;t be fooled, these are just ratios converted to <em>turnover</em> measures. For example, debtor days is simply Debtors/Sales multiplied by the number of days in the year (note: <strong>some people use year-end debtors and some use average debtors</strong>). The creditor and inventory day measures are the same, except they&#8217;re a ratio denominated by COGS rather than sales, for obvious reasons. In a conceptual sense, these day measurements tell you on average how long those items are <em>turned </em>in a year. For example, debtor days of 45 means on average debtors are settling their accounts within 45 days.</p>
